hi
everybody good morning or a good
afternoon depending on where you are
it's
great to see a lot of faces here
on um on zoom feels like we're
testing zoom limit zooms limits with so
many people
um having their the camera on um
yeah my my name is christophe janz i'm a
founding partner at 0.9 capital and
i'm excited to talk to you today about
um what we think it takes to raise
capital in 2021 based
on especially things that we've seen in
the last
year or or last couple of months and
we're trying to extrapolate
a bit from that um really
quick introduction and if you haven't
heard about us yet um we're an early
stage
venture capital firm and we're focused
on
b2b sas and b2b marketplaces
and based in europe but we are very
geo-agnostic
and invest in early stage companies all
over europe but also in the us
and canada and other places and we've
been
lucky enough to have been amongst the
first investors in
companies like algolia and contentful
type form loom zendesk
and and many others and you see some of
the logos here on the screen
so what does it take to raise
capital in 2021
um we i'll
give you a sneak peek at what we call
the sas funding napkin which you might
have seen
before and and oops
sorry and if there is still
time we can talk a bit about
fundraising and fundraising tips if we
don't have
enough time for enough q a during
this session we will uh hop
over to a clubhouse right after this
session and i realize not not everybody
might have an invitation to clubhouse
already but
maybe there are enough people in the
group here who have a couple of
spare invitations so we'll hopefully be
able to get everybody
who is interested in continuing the
conversation
on clubhouse and onto the platform
um so we
asked this question before um starting
in
2016 um it started with a
blog post which then became
first a virtual and then eventually a
real physical paper-based napkin
and it started out from with a question
um
can we get the uh maybe
quite complicated answer to to this
question on
like the literal back of a back of a
napkin
and because um that
kind of guidance and simplicity um
resonated quite well with people we kept
doing it again in 2017
um and 2018 and basically ever since
um so we we keep updating or
publish we keep publishing an updated
version of this napkin
um on an annual basis and you you might
have
seen the the real thing at a disaster
conference or
or other south conferences
so for this year's napkin
we once again did a type form
survey and asked a lot of founders
and investors to give us data
from financing rounds that they have
done
or seen and the
analyzer that i'm going to present on
the following pages
is based on those submissions as well as
data
from our own portfolio in total
we got 74 financing rounds like data
points on 74
financing rounds from the last um 12
months
and it's important to keep in mind um
that
this is not a huge number we
we think it's good enough to be
directionally right but it's
um if you but if you break down these
data points into precede
c series a series b series c then
it's not a huge number of data points
per
per stage because this data is
unfortunately relatively hard to
to get and it's it's easier to get
just the size of financing rounds you'll
see that on on techcrunch and so on
but getting uh the depth of the data
that we're asking for here
uh including things like valuation
err and things like this is is is
somewhat harder
to to get so um keep in mind that some
of the data
needs to be taken with a grain of salt
um it's not really
scientific but i guess that's also why
we're
publishing it on a net kin and not in a
scientific paper
okay so let's start with the data
for pre-seed rounds
and keep in mind that the labels are
based on the labels chosen
by the respondents so there is a
possibility
that some people think of a precede
as something different than than others
um and this is just based on how the
rounds were
called by the the people who
participated in them which is
i think usually the the best at least
the best guess here
so um let's now look at the data
what you can see here are charts
showing the round sizes the pre-money
valuations
and the arr levels of these companies
at or around the time when they raised
their precede round
and each of these blue bars
represents one company or financing
round respectively
so for pre we have about
about 10 10 data points and the
lighter blue line shows you the the
median
um so you can see that as far as the
round sizes
are concerned it's quite a wide range
starting with just a few hundred
thousand dollars
um all the way up to close to 1.5
million
um in terms of the valuation and
if you disregard like this outlier here
with a very slow very low valuation
um and this one here with a very high
evaluation then
um the valuations are in a in a
relatively
narrow um band and
in terms of err you can see that some
companies
and not surprisingly for precede um are
not
yet or have not yet been generating any
revenue
whereas some other companies have been
in the
hundreds of thousands and almost like
one of them here
um close to a million i guess about 800
000k um dollar arr range
um when we try to
um distill this further
and we're mostly interested in
what a typical round looks like so we're
less interested
in in the outliers we're more interested
in
what most founders can expect and what
kind of terms
they can expect for um for a round
like this um and therefore for the
purpose of
updating the napkin or get generating
the data for the napkin
we usually disregard the the outliers
like the first
15 percentiles and the
the last 15 percentiles like from 0 to
15 and from 85 to 100
so we're usually focusing on this range
which represents about
70 of the data points and then we
we we round the numbers a little bit and
and that gets
us to a round size bet in the 300
000 dollars to a million range to
evaluation in the 2.5 to 4.5 million
range
and in terms of err to
the zero to six hundred thousand dollar
range
okay let's update the napkin
what you're seeing here on the screen is
the
original um 2016
napkin and i'm now going to
live update this in preparation
for the new napkin which we're going to
complete and release in the next couple
of days
um i can i will also in in a couple of
minutes give you some data points from
the previous version of the napkin which
was based on 2019 data
and released at the end of early in 2020
so
and we also have a more recent
comparison
um but now let's look at what the
latest data looks like in comparison
to the original 2016 data from about
five years ago
you can see that the valuations
as well as the amounts typically raised
in a pre
precede financing have pretty much
doubled maybe almost almost tripled here
which which is quite um quite a dramatic
change um in terms of
um arr um we originally
made the napkin based on on mrr
we've meanwhile switched to arr so and
just keep that in mind originally
we noted zero um as the typical
revenue for a precede financing but
turns out that some of the companies at
least based on
our latest data set here actually um
had some revenue already
so what does it take to raise a pre-seed
round
it's mostly about the team and the idea
and usually there is either
nothing yet in terms of revenue or or
very little
it's usually a pre-product market fit
so what what investors really want to
know
at this very early stage is is why
you're convinced that you found
a big problem that you are uniquely
qualified to solve better than anybody
else
so in in this early stage it's all about
the the story and being able to convey
um how you came up with this idea and
what what makes you believe that you
found a gap in the market so
when we look at companies at these early
stages and
knowing that there is very little in
terms of validation from the market
we always want to know how much work did
the founders
do before they decided to pursue this
idea
and and not another idea so
um this is what what we at point nine
one of the things we like and i focus on
when we
when we look at pre-seed opportunities
now let's move on to the next stage
the seed round
again here every each of these blue
bars represents one company
financing round and you can see
that for the round size here it's a
pretty
broad range like companies have raised
um
everything from a million dollars
um to close to five million dollars
at valuations in the millions
um as well as like 10 to 20 million
range and then there is one
outlier here that raised at more than
more than
30 million at the tree at the the seed
stage which which is very impressive
um and for the arr
as you can see there is a number of
companies that had
zero or close to zero in terms of arr
and then a number of companies in the
few hundred thousand
up to about a million dollar err range
and and then again one
one significant outlier and if we um
again focus on the uh
70 or so in the in the middle of the
range in the median of the range
disregarding the outliers
then um i would put the typical round
size at the seed stage at
2.5 million pre-money valuation
8 to 17 um and ar
02 to 600k and we
can now again look at how this looks
like
on the napkin
so as you can see here
the difference between 2016
and 2020 slash 2021 is
is maybe even more pronounced than it
was at the precede stage
so we whereas we we
saw uh round sizes in the half a million
to a 2.5
million range a couple of years ago and
it's now very rare to see seed rounds
in the hundreds of thousands or probably
even a million so that's
probably like double to triple uh
in in just a couple of years um
similarly valuations we originally
um mentioned uh noted the range as
being two to six million and now it's
eight to 17 so that's basically
i'm more than more than triple the
valuation
i'm at the typical seat round um
and the in terms of the
er or mrr actually not that much
um has changed and now
importantly the change between
the change that i just described is not
all of this happened
just in the last 12 months so for
reference
i am also showing you here the data from
a little more than
a year ago where you can see that in
we already put the seed round at one to
four million and the evaluation at four
to 11 million so that's somewhere in
between the 2016 numbers and the
2020 or 2021 number so it's been a
continuous evolution or
development towards higher and higher
evaluations and bigger and bigger
round sizes and that started
and in in 2016 or maybe actually even
even before that
um now what does it take to raise
a seat round like what's the difference
between pre-seed
and seed um what what investors
typically are looking for
at the seed stage is some
some sign of product market fit usually
investors do not expect um huge numbers
whether that's numbers in terms of
customers
users or revenue but what they and what
at least we are looking for
um in a seat round is that there
are some happy users that we can
use as a proxy and that can give us
the confidence that um product market
fit is
in the making or that there is some
product market fit even
at least for a very small subset of the
market for a small niche
and which gives us the confidence that
there is something that can
that can be grown and depending on the
type of company
um if it's an enterprise sas company
maybe you just have a couple of
pilots or proof of concepts in the
making and you get some
positive confirmation from these
customers and if it's
on the smb or more consumery side you
probably have a somewhat larger
number of of active users
who might show promising engagement
numbers
moving on to the series a
and again one each bar represents
one company or financing round and
you can see that the round sizes
for the series a span from
just a few million dollars to um all the
way up to 15 million dollars
most of them being in the 5 to 12
million dollar range
um most of the valuations are in the 18
to 50 million dollar range with
again some some outliers below and
above that um and the arr
range is as you can see mostly between
about half a million
in err and and four million
um and this might sound like and
actually
is quite a lot so there used to be this
rule of thumb that a
that in order to be able to raise a
series a you should be
um at about a million in terms of arr
and some companies um are successful
and able to raise a series a at about a
million
of ar but what you can see here is that
the vast majority of companies
um are actually significantly um further
ahead and i think that's it's pretty
important to keep in mind as you
think about your um your planning and
when
you when you feel confident to go out
for
for a series a um it's
related to the fact that pre-seed rounds
and seed reads
and sorry pre-seed rounds and seed
rounds
have become bigger and bigger and
give companies just a lot more time and
runway
before they start thinking about a
series a so
if you've already been operating for a
couple of years and if you've raised and
spent
a couple of million dollars then the
expectation is that you can
just get further along than it was
previously the case so
let's again update our
napkin
um you can again see here that the
numbers in comparison to
2016 and you will see that
the round sizes and valuations
have have gone up although not quite as
dramatically as
they have at the at the seed stage and
if we compare
it with the 2019
numbers you can see that most of the
increase has actually happened between
2016 and 2019 at least based on
our data and again it's a limited data
set we need to take it
with a grain of salt but based on our
data we have not seen
a huge difference between
the last year and the year before that
now let's come to the series b
you know how this works by now
we're looking at the round size and the
pre-money evaluation and the arr
levels of these companies that have
raised a series b
and our takeaway from this data
is that the round sizes are typically in
the 18 to 50 million dollar
range for the pre-money valuation
the range as you can see is very very
wide and i think that's that is quite
remarkable and something which we
haven't seen
a few years ago that companies
and not only one but actually that half
of the companies here
in this data set have raised their
series b
north of 200 million dollars um
in terms of the pre-money valuation i
think that's that's quite remarkable
it's also worth pointing out that these
companies
um already had millions and in some
in most cases actually more than around
5 million
of of er and again this is also related
to the fact that
some of these companies have already
previously raised
larger a rounds than they than their
counterparts of like a generation before
so we'll also update the
netkin here and and here you can see
a very substantial increase over the
data
from just a couple of years ago and
um even just in comparison to the data
from 2019 you can see just how much
these amounts around for round sizes
and and valuations have gone have gone
up
maybe a couple of words about what
investors are typically
looking for at these stages and
except for just the ar number
in comparison to a precede or it
um n series a just gets more and more
quantitative at at the series b and in
series
c because the everything that you're
doing
um tends to show up in in the numbers
um so whereas in
at the series a people will look at the
the numbers but the uh
but there are like many many other
important
points that do not yet show up in the
numbers
like have you already been able to make
some some good
senior senior hires um what's the
product
velocity and so on all of this typically
shows in the numbers at the series b and
series c
stage so investors will really look very
deeply
into your cohorts and into your
your ltvs
and and and all of that
okay the last state that we're going to
look at here is the series
c where we do not have a huge number of
data
points but probably a big enough number
to at least have a directionally
accurate
picture and as you can see here it's
quite a
large range with respect to round size
and even more so with respect to
evaluation and that's again not
something that is
uh quite unusual that was uh much
more rare just a few years ago so you
can see
that the the range for a series c
was 35 million to 120 million
and that valuation range
was 100 million to to as much as
900 million and there is there are two
companies here
on our chart that um raised at
um a billion and two billion
respectively so that that's quite
remarkable
and we're happy that the one with two
billion is a data point from the
0.9 family
so adding that to the napkin
as well and here you can see
like a a really gigantic difference to
the series c
data from 2016 and it might be that we
just didn't have enough data points when
we
did the original napkin in 2016 maybe
we missed some of the bigger rounds and
higher valuations there
but but by direct directionally i think
it's fair to say that there has been a
um a a very substantial increase in
the amounts of money companies can raise
and and the valuations at which they
raise it um at the serious c level
in comparison to just a few years ago
okay so let me try to
wrap this up with a couple of takeaways
and
then after that we can either open it up
for
questions or discussion and discussion
or i can continue to talk about a couple
of
fundraising tips but let's go straight
to the
to the takeaways
so the first takeaway
is that in terms of valuation and round
sizes we
almost see a shift or a re-labeling if
you
if you will like what used to be called
a seed is now a precede what used to be
called a series a
is now a seed what used to be called a
series b
is now a series a and what used to be
called
a series c is now a series b so you can
almost shift the columns one
step and if you look at the snap can
it's important though to keep in mind
that the expectations have gone
up too so um it's not
just that valuations um
and round sizes have gone up and every
body raising a seed round can basically
just 5x all the numbers
um if you've raised a million dollar in
precede
and five million dollar in in seed as an
example then series a investors will
usually look for more than the million
dollars
in arr which previously we consider
to be a rule of thumb so as we saw when
we looked at
the um the detailed data for the series
a
most companies had already several
million dollars in
in er um so
um that's important to keep in mind um
apart from the typo that i've just
seen here and that i correct afterwards
um and then another thing that's
important to keep in mind here is that
having said what i just said is that the
the the the best or the hottest if you
will
10 to 20 of the companies
they kind of defy all rules so
um we've we've seen companies
raising at really very very remarkable
terms in the last in the last years but
even even more so or especially in the
last 12 months
and if there is an exceptional team in a
in a hot market they can
raise basically a series a um like in
terms of valuation
and and round size at the at the seed or
maybe even pre-seed and
um and they um can raise
like a serious b style round um
at seeds so if a company has the the
right ingredients
which in the early days usually means an
exceptional team
in a very sought after market and
a bit later on means exceptional growth
which usually means growing faster than
three four
five x depending on you're over here
depending on on where you're at
then most of the the rules that
um apply to most um
normal uh i don't know what the right
trouble like most
like most normal mortals if that's the
right term then
um they kind of don't apply so
that is what i've prepared um and
i do have a few um bonus tips
for that might help you i think they
are kind of like evergreen tips so maybe
the current situation
emphasizes or amplifies
parts of these things or considerations
but
i think those are mostly
pieces of advice that we would have
given or have given already for
for for years and the the first one is
that
um you should i just bring it up or like
the i think
that the first one is you should in
almost
all cases run a fundraising process
um investors will often
try to pull you into
preemptive fundraising discussions um
i think that's mostly good for them not
necessarily good for
the the the founders and
i think in almost all cases you are
better
off if you decide when you go out
fundraising and then you
um by the time you're really ready you
have your ducks in a row you have
an excellent deck and due diligence
materials and then you
start a conversations with a relatively
long list of vcs and and pretty quickly
disqualify them the ones that
where you don't get like strong signals
and so you can kind of you see the
parallels here to a
a sales process you could pretty much
say
everything here about a sales process
like run a process yes that's what you
should do in sales
have a killer deck nbd materials yes you
should have great sales collateral
and start with a long long list and
disqualify
ruthlessly same for sales you should
have a big top of the funnel but then
qualify or unqualify strictly and
essentially um raising money
from investors is a is a sales process
right and and there is no reason why you
shouldn't
uh treat it as as such
um we it it's always tempting to
um like to to talk to
in in investors outside of a
process like this and i'm not saying
that it's it's always
wrong um but um i
in our experience and we've really
seen or helped companies raise i don't
know dozens maybe hundreds of series a's
and
series b's and it's almost always better
if
you as a founder can control um the
timing and you
talk to several investors in in parallel
so that
once you start to get to the finish line
you have um
several investors interested in the
round and you can
also create some competitive pressure
thank you caitlin and
thanks to the sas to the entire sastra
team as well as to everybody
who was listening in or calling in here
from
from various places in in the world
[Music]
you